# Documents

Here you can find the project documentation.

## Docs

- [PRISM protocol (short version)](./article.pdf)
<br/>Compact description of the protocol behind PRISM.
<br/>Note **this document is public.**

- [PRISM protocol](./protocol.pdf)
<br/>Description of the PRISM's protocol

- [SDK](./docs/sdk/README.md)
This small doc aims to specify the approach we plan to take to build a decent one.

## Compiling diagrams

There are some requirements to compile the diagrams:

- Install graphviz, on ubuntu-based systems should be as simple as running `apt-get install graphviz`, verify the installation by running `dot -v`.
- Download the plantuml jar file from the [official site](http://plantuml.com/starting).

Then, open a terminal on the directory with the `*.puml` files, and run the following command after replacing the location for your `plantuml.jar` file:

- `for file in *.puml; do java -jar ~/Downloads/plantuml.jar "$file"; done`

It is useful to see the diagram changes as you edit the sources, there is a [plantuml plugin for IntelliJ](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/7017-plantuml-integration/) which can help.

## Add new Documents

When Creating a new document, choose the best tool for the job.
We recommend using:

- Markdown format for quick documentation.
- Latex format to create a more structure document.
- [Mermaid format](https://mermaid-js.github.io/mermaid/#/) (inside a Markdown file) for flowcharts or Sequence diagrams. (Since is already supported by github)

After creating the document upload this index file.
<br/>Also, you will probably need to update the [github action job](/.github/workflows/gh-pages-documentation-website.yml) to build your new document.

## Update Documents

Most documents shound be updated/refreshed automatically when chenged by the Github Action.

For the components that have diagrams generated by plantuml be sure to compile them each time they are updated.
We intend to automate this in the future.
